Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m
going to explain a Horror Sci Fi film
called “Parasyte: Part 1,” Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care!
The movie begins with mysterious aliens called the
Parasites starting their invasion of humans. They
infect humans by entering their brains. One such
parasite enters the brain of a middle aged man
sleeping next to his wife while another such
parasite tries to enter the brain of a high
school student named Shinichi Izumi. However,
the alien fails to bypass Shinichi’s earphones,
and hence resorts to infecting
his right hand instead. Startled,
Shinichi screams and tries to get it out. After
hearing him screaming, Shinichi’s mother Nobuko
rushes to check up on her son. She checks his hand
but doesn’t find anything wrong. She calls it his
imagination and tells him to go back to sleep.
By next morning, the alien in the man’s body eats
his brain and takes over his human consciousness.
It then decapitates the man’s wife and feeds on
it. Meanwhile, Shinichi surprisingly retains his
human consciousness, possibly due to the way of
entry of the alien that entered his body. The
alien seems to have taken over Shinichi’s right
hand and makes him do things beyond his control.
Like randomly grabbing Shinichi’s girlfriend
Satomi Murano, extending the length of Shinichi’s
right hand to grab things and throwing a ball into
the basket from a distance without even looking.
Puzzled and worried, Shinichi confronts his right
hand with a box cutter knife, forcing the alien
to reveal itself. It turns out, the alien can
shape shift. It transforms his right hand into
a snake, frightening poor Shinichi. However,
unlike the other aliens who are ruthless killers,
the alien that has taken over Shinichi’s hand is
more friendly. It reveals that it was supposed
to feed on Shinichi’s brain but failed to do so
because of his earphones. Now, it has permanently
become a part of Shinichi’s right hand and will
live as long as the boy lives. With no other
choice, Shinichi befriends the parasite and names
him “Migi”. As Migi learns about the Japanese
language, Sword fighting, human anatomy, archery,
the other alien goes on a killing rampage.
While returning from school, Migi senses the
presence of other brain eating aliens and
drags Shinichi to a nearby restaurant. They
find the main door closed so they sneak into the
restaurant through the back door. To their horror,
Migi and Shinichi witness the brain eating alien
feeding on a human. The alien senses Migi’s
presence and happily welcomes it. However, the
alien soon realizes that Migi hasn’t killed the
human host. The alien then starts walking towards
the boy with a lust in his eyes for his brain.
Migi warns the alien to back off, knowing that if
Shinichi dies, Migi will die with him. However,
the alien reveals that although two alien brains
can’t reside in one human head, Migi can reside in
the alien’s host’s hand. The alien then amputates
its host’s hand and asks Migi to move over, so
the alien could feed on Shinichi’s brain. However,
Migi declines and the two aliens fight each other.
Migi makes use of the sword fighting lessons
and decapitates the alien’s host’s body,
consequently killing the alien.
Relieved, Shinichi thanks Migi for
saving his life. However, Migi tells him
that it killed the alien only because
the alien’s transfering proposal was
risky so preferred living in his hand.
It is revealed that Migi is able to survive
in its host’s hand because of the nutrients
it is getting from Shinichi’s diet. Migi
tells him that it will protect him from
everything as long as it gets nutrients from him.
Meanwhile Detective Hirama starts investigating
the murders. He suspects that a
cannibalistic killer is on the loose.
The next day in school, Shinichi’s principal
introduces a new teacher named Ryoko Tamiya.
To Shinichi’s dismay, Migi reveals that his
new teacher has been taken over by an alien.
They later confront Tamiya. Tamiya assures them
that she means no harm and invites them to talk
after school. They later meet at an aquatic zoo,
where Tamiya introduces them to two other aliens:
Shimada Hideo, a high school student and
Mr. A, a police officer. The aliens ask
Tamiya why she brought them to meet a human.
Tamiya, who seems more reasonable compared to
other aliens, reveals her interest in studying
the humans' way of life. She even had sex with
Mr. A for her research. She reveals she
is now pregnant with a normal human baby.
Tamiya feels that they all need each other to
survive and find the purpose of their life. She
is also concerned about the killings being highly
reported in the media and is looking for ways to
feed on humans without creating a media spectacle.
She asks Migi and Shinichi to cooperate with them.
When Shinichi and Migi decline her offer,
Tamiya warns them of dire consequences if they
try to get in their way. She reminds them that
Satomi and the entire school is at her mercy.
Back at home, seeing Shinichi so distant of late,
his mother asks him if he’s okay. She nudges him
to open up, but Shinichi only gets irritated
and tells her that he is not a child anymore and
doesn’t have to tell his mother everything.
The next day, while returning from school,
Migi and Shinichi run into Mr. A. Migi senses
the alien’s intention to kill and asks Shinichi
to avoid him. Shinichi heeds his advice and
runs away but Mr. A follows him into a secluded
alley. With no other choice, Migi decides to
finally confront him and order him to back off.
Mr. A warns them that he is not like Tamiya. He
reveals that he heard about the parasite that
Migi murdered in a restaurant. He calls Migi a
“dangerous” parasite who must be dealt with. An
intense battle follows. As Migi and Mr. A fight,
Shinichi slowly moves closer to the alien hiding
a metal pipe in his left hand. When he gets close
enough, Migi gives him a greenlight and Shinichi
impales Mr. A with the pipe. As Mr. A collapses
on the ground, a frightened Shinichi runs away.
Shinichi is shaken after killing
a man but Migi, amused by nature,
reminds him that the alien had already killed
the human when it took over the host’s body.
Meanwhile, while returning home from the market,
Shinichi’s mother notices the helpless Mr. A
in the alley. She nervously inquires
if he is okay from a distance.
Back at home, Migi suspects that an alien is
approaching their home. Frightened, Shinichi
rushes to the kitchen and grabs a knife. The door
opens and it is revealed to be Shinichi’s mother
Nobuko. Migi warns him that Mr. A has taken over
his mother’s body but Shinichi refuses to believe
it. Mr. A has separated from his old body and
moved into Shinichi’s mother’s body. However,
the mere suggestion upsets Shinichi and he
threatens to kill Migi if it doesn’t stop talking
“nonsense”. However, Shinichi’s worst fear comes
true and Mr. A speaks through Shinichi’s mother,
confirming Migi’s claims. Shinichi breaks into
tears and goes into denial. He apologises to
his mother for hiding the truth from her and
pleads with her to stop joking with him.
Disregarding his emotions, Mr. A then pierces
Shinichi’s heart and mortally injures him. Migi
screams in disbelief as Shinichi collapses
on the ground. Mr. A tells Migi that it is
over for both Migi and Shinichi. As Mr.
A leaves, Migi enters Shinichi’s body
through the hole that Mr. A left on his back.
Two days pass by and Shinichi lays motionless
in his home. He eventually gains consciousness
and gets up. Migi reveals that it used a piece
of itself to cover the hole in Shinichi’s body
and left a part of itself in his heart that had
been destroyed. Migi then returned back to
Shinichi’s right hand. It was an experiment
but fortunately, it worked. However,
Shinichi is not so excited about being alive
after losing his mother. He tells Migi that it
should have let him die and breaks into tears.
After collecting himself, Shinichi heads to his
school to confront Tamiya. He asks her about Mr.
A but she refuses to disclose his whereabouts.
Angered, Shinichi shoots a knife at her but she
effortlessly blocks his attack and leaves.
Meanwhile, Detective Hirama finds Shinichi’s
finger prints on the iron pipe and restaurant.
Still grieving, Shinichi wanders around the
city and comes across a political rally. Migi
determines that the politician named Takeshi
Hirokawa addressing the crowd has been taken
over by an alien. It speculates that the aliens
want to create a place where they can eat humans.
Later, Detective Hirama drops by Shinichi’s home.
He asks him about the policeman’s murder
but Shinichi denies have any knowlege.
The next day, Satomi introduces Shinichi
to Shimada, one of the members of Tamiya’s
network. Satomi reveals Shimada has just
transferred to their school. She forces
Shinichi to shake hands with the alien.
The alien tries to squeeze Shinichi's
left hand but to his astonishment, Shinichi
squeezes the alien's hand with equal force.
Migi speculates that the cell it used to repair
Shinichi’s heart might be still alive inside
him and is changing Shinichi’s body to become
stronger like the alien bodies. It is also having
perceptible effects on Shinichi’s personality as
once a shy and docile Shinichi keeps insisting on
finding and challenging Mr. A. Migi tells him
that he can’t always be there to protect him
because he must sleep for 4 hours each day and
unlike humans, Migi can’t choose when to sleep
and also can’t be woken up during those hours.
After a lengthy investigation, the police
determines that the parasites are responsible
for the series of killings in the city.
They learn that the parasites can be identified
by their hair. When one pulls out their hair,
their hair strand reacts by curling.
The next day, the principal learns about
Tamiya’s pregnancy and forces her to
take maternity leave. Migi and Shinichi
are excited by the news but she reminds them that
Shimada will continue to keep an eye on them.
She reveals that Shimada is going to perfectly fit
in the school environment because just like her,
Shiramada doesn’t consume human meat.
Meanwhile, Shimada is in the art room volunteering
to be the art model for Satomi and her friends.
While guiding Shimada to find the right pose,
Satomi’s friend pulls out his hair. To her horror,
the hair starts curling. The girl and her friends
realize that Shimada is a parasite and start
panicking. She tries to run away but Shimada
drags her back in. He then proceeds towards the
girls but Satomi hurls a bottle of paint remover
into the alien’s mouth. The chemical disfigures
the alien and makes him go out of control.
Satomi encourages the girls to run but Shimada
stops them and starts executing the girls.
Migi senses Shimada’s killing intent and rushes
to the art room. To his horror, he comes across a
trail of dead bodies of his classmates causing him
to have a panic attack. Migi helps him calm down
and they then continue looking for Shimada.
They eventually spot the alien proceeding
to kill Satomi. Shinichi saves her and confronts
Shimada but suddenly Tamiya appears from behind.
Upset with Shimada for causing this mess,
Tamiya scolds him and throws a DIY bomb
towards him. With the bomb seconds away from
exploding, Shinichi quickly grabs an injured
Satomi and jumps out of the building.
After the explosion, the police arrive
and confront the alien who has survived the
blast. Shinichi sends Satomi to a hospital
in an ambulance before returning to finish
Shimada. Shinichi shoots a metal rod from
another building and kills the alien for good.
Tamiya then appears and tells Migi and Shinichi
that she is going to disappear for a while
until she has her baby. Before departing,
she hands Shinichi the location
of the Mr. A-possessed Nobuko.
Shinichi finds Mr. A at the address and secretly
follows him into a bridge. However, Migi suddenly
tells him that they must return as Migi is feeling
sleepy. Shinichi can’t believe in his bad luck.
Migi gives him his good wishes and transforms
into a sword before falling asleep. Mr. A finally
notices Shinichi and is stunned to learn that he
is still alive. The alien then launches an attack
but is even more surprised by Shinichi’s speed.
While dodging Mr. A’s attacks, Shinichi starts
moving closer and closer to the alien. Mr. A plays
a trick on Shinichi using his mother’s voice.
It then proceeds to kill a distracted Shinichi but
Nobuko overcomes the parasite’s consciousness and
blocks its attack. Shinichi uses the opportunity
to kill Nobuko, killing Mr. A with her.
Over the course of the next few days, Hirokawa
wins the mayor’s election and promises to deliver
on his promises. Meanwhile, Detective Hirama
is approached by a Special Assault Team(SAT)
officer named Yamagishi, who makes him
sign a letter of confidentiality for a
project called, “Human Life Protection”.
Tamiya and Hirokawa are seen talking to a
mysterious parasite named Goto, who reveals
that when he took over its human host’s body,
it was instructed to finish mankind. The
movie then ends with Shinichi's visit to
Satomi at the hospital, where an unknown
individual records him talking with Migi.
Subscribe for more videos like
this, turn on notifications,
and leave a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.